The Joe Rogan experience. How'd you become that guy?
You know what? I grew up, not that guy. Yeah.
So a lot of people put a title on me. They want to, uh,
they see me now. They see me now as the guy that with his shirt off,
who can do 4,030 pull-ups in 17 hours,
you can run tours and five miles in 39 hours who can do all this crazy.
But what they don't understand is they don't understand the journey that it took
me to get to this point.
And what got me to this point was I was just the opposite of what I am today.
I was that guy who ran away from absolutely everything I got in front
of me, but not many people knew that I had two people at the,
like the real me was like this very scared, insecure,
stuttering got beat up by his dad and all this kind of stuff.
And I built this fake person that walked around, like my didn't stink,
you know, you know? Yeah. So that was, that's kind of how I did it.
And I do process of time.
I realized that I was lying to myself and lying to people.
It's a fascinating journey though, because you are that guy now, right? I mean,
you genuinely are legit. Bad-ass right. At one point in time,
you were a legit terrified person. Yes.
So what was the process like? How did, how did you step.
Forth? Well, it's, uh, it's, it's a long process, right?
Um, I, my dad beat the on me when I was growing up.
I was the first black baby born in this hospital called Miller Fillmore in
Buffalo, New York, my dad owned skating rinks. He owned bars.
He ran prostitutes from Canada to Buffalo, New York. My dad was a big time pimp,
big time, anything bad about a person, big time hustler. He was American.
You know, that movie with them, Danza, Washington, he was at, but not that bad.
You know, he wasn't that big, but that's what it reminds me of.
He was that kinda guy and, um, beat the out of me, you know,
out of my mom,
there was an incident one time when my mom got knocked out on top of the stairs
and they drug her down the stairs by her hair and at six years old, um,
I'll never forget this in my mind.
I was always afraid my whole life. I was afraid, but I had this voice, this,
this conscience that would always be battling me saying, Hey,
you got to get up and do something. I didn't want to do. You know,
like I was just afraid, but I would, that, that voice would force me to get up.
And my dad, you know,
I tried to beat him up whatever at six and I get my kicked.
So this went on for several years and I have a big time learning disability
because my dad didn't believe in us going to school. So my dad,
it was about the business, the skating rink and the bar.
So the skating rink opened by seven o'clock at night. And this is when Tom,
I was able to walk. So about fi you know, four or five, six years old, eight,
nine. And I go to the skating rink at seven o'clock at night.
And I worked the skating rink until 10 at night.
And then we would scrape the gum off the floors and we cleaned the whole skating
up.
And then my dad had an office and my brother and myself asleep in the office.
My mom would go upstairs and work the bar until three o'clock in the morning.
And then they cleaned the bar up.
So after all that was done with going to school, rarely happened.
So when I went to school, I was all kind of, you know, my,
my learning disability, I had social anxiety.
I was just a jacked up kid from living in this tortured home from the outside,
looking in, we lived in an all white neighborhood.
And then we would travel to the ghetto of Buffalo,
New York with a skating rink was at, so we, you know,
we worked around mostly blacks and I lived around mostly whites,
but no one knew what was going on in that house. That on 2 0 1 paradise road,
I mean, it's crazy. But, um, my mom got courage to finally leave him.
When I was about eight years old, we moved to a small town in Brazil, Indiana,
and that's when the real war started for me. And Brazilian is a small town,
great people, a lot of great people.
And I say that because a lot people get offended and I'm going to get to the
point where they get defended.
There was about maybe 10 black families at about 10,000 people in the town.
And in 1995, the KKK marched in the 4th of July parade.
So this was, uh, not everybody was racist. There was a lot of good people.
Some the best people I knew was there, but there's also a lot of racism there.
So me being one of the few black kids, net, you know, in the area, you know, it,
it kind of haunts you. I had stuff in my notebook, you know,
we're going to kill you on my Spanish notebook. They had that on my car,
we're going to kill this is early nineties. And, um,
so even though I showed it didn't hurt me, it was jacking me up.
So all the insecurities I have when I was a kid with my father,
I moved into this area here and it just got worse and worse and worse.
And it haunted me.
And that voice that talked about it kept talking louder and louder and louder.
I would do nothing about it.
And I decided to make moves and I cheated all through school.
And it's, it's kind of humbling to talk with my stories sometimes. And this, um,
it's also embarrassing, but, um,
it's real is who the I am is what I am is what created me
and copy from the fourth grade to the two, to my junior year in high school,
on every assignment.
And I want to get in the military when I joined the air force and the guy gave
me an VAP test. It's like a watered down sat,
and I couldn't copy on it because it, Gabby Sammy had a test, a test B,
they got him a rainhead Tessie.
So I looked at copy on this test and I couldn't copy on it.
So I got like a 20 and I wanted to be an air force.
Pararescueman it's guys that jump out of airplanes and save down pilots. It's a,
it's a special operator in the air force.
And my score was so horribly low that as we take it again and he said, Hey,
I got an 18, the second time, even worse, I need to get a 50 out of a 99.
And so my mom and I, for a while,
we lived in the government subsidized apartments, $7 a month,
and also food stamps. And we slowly moved up to two or $3 a month place.
But at the time, you know, w you know, pretty poor, but, um,
my mom afforded enough money for me to go to see a tutor one, one hour a week.
So for four hours a month, it had six months to study for our last test.
I'm going to take the assets, you know, the aspect test three times. And I
studied my off and passed it.
And I got in the air force and realized there was more things in front of me.
I was afraid of water, terrify the water. And, um,
I learned how to swim,
but when it gets everybody in this training in all special ops training is the
water confidence where they tried to pretty much drown your. You know,
all of our lives we've been breathing and they take that from you.
And they want to see how comfortable you are in the water.
And there's only 1% African-Americans in special operations.
And I didn't know anything about African net.
Like a lot of them are negative buoyant,
which I am because of the bone density I struggled,
but I'm six weeks into the program. There was about 25 guys left.
I have about 150. I was there and I was never,
I didn't go to sleep for six weeks of the program.
And I wanted to quit so badly, but I quit everything in my life.
I copied through school. I wanted to prove people wrong.
And so here I am in this air force program,
starting to get a little more confidence, but this water was kicking my.
And six weeks into the program that doctor gave me a blood test.
And was that sickle cell, sickle cell trait, not the anemia,
but I still killed people. But so they pulled me out training for a week.
And when you go from being very uncomfortable in that water situation,
and then now you're comfortable and I'm sitting back watching the guys drown.
I'm not, you know, I'm not part of the activities anymore for this week.
I want to get back in that water again.
So the fear overcoming all my insecurities from my dad, from this small town,
from everything started coming back. And even though no one knew how up I was,
kind of created this other person who was tough. I live with this all the time.
So me not wanting to go back in that water. The doctor called me back up.
I thought I'd get like a, like a medical kick out the military.
So no quitting for me, they'll kick me out so I can have some pride.
The doctor said, no, man, we can, you know,
we could put you back into the training. And I was like, but after a week,
I'm like,
you know what I missed one week there's only three weeks left is a good chance.
You know, I could tough this out and go on.
But I went back to the CEO and the commanding officer of the program.
And the Sergeant said, Hey, you gotta start from day one because you missed,
you know, that, that we could train him. And I broke. I broke. I, I,
I couldn't imagine going back through that again.
So I made up a lie and I said, man, the sickle cell things really scare me.
It was the water. It wasn't sickle cell. And I pretty much quit,
even though they gave me a medical, I quit. So, um,
from the age of 19, the age of 22,
I went into the job called PTAC P where you control fast movers behind enemy
lines. Cool job. But there's no, I was afraid of the water.
So I avoided it and I gained 125 pounds in that timeframe.
I went from 1 75 to almost 300 to 2 97 was my heaviest.
And I started finding things that was comfortable.
And the more things I found comfortable,
the more uncomfortable my mind was because that voice I was telling you about it
always was there. I was just trying to avoid that conscience. I,
I wanted to be left alone from that conscience and it wouldn't leave me alone.
So I got out of the air force and I started working for a job called Ecolab re
spray for cockroaches at 24.
And I'm spraying at different steak and shakes, red lobster,
whatever from 11 o'clock at night, seven o'clock in the morning.
And what changed?
I came home and watched this discovery channel show class 2 24.
I came home from steak and shake. I sprayed it down last, get a big old,
large 42 ounce shake while cross the street and get a box of mini donuts from
seven 11. And now I drive home for 45 minutes.
This big old fat guy who, yeah, I worked out, but I was fat.
I didn't run didn't PT. I just hit the gym. So I'm driving home,
turn the TV on and what comes on discovery channel. So,
and that's where everything changed for me. I was taking a shower. I walked out,
heard these guys and I watched a show and it made me reflect big time
on the piece of that I am in. I'm exactly what people said I was going to be.
So.
So what was on this show that really struck home? It was.
Um, I saw these guys going into water, so I was terrified of it. I mean,
I can't even express,
have you had a big fear and a lot of fighters have fears and stuff like that,
but they get over them.
But a lot of us have these fears that you just don't want to face. And, um,
I have a lot of them had a lot of them and that's what created the person who's
in front of you today. And we'll get into that, but I'm just a scared.
It was what I was. And, but I was watching these guys going through hell week,
class 2 24, and these guys ringing the bell, quitting,
dropping their helmet down, rolling out a lot of guys just leaving.
And it made me reflect on my fears.
My insecurities and I saw real men were,
I thought were real men who were staying, who were overcoming adversity,
who were overcoming all these different things that I had blamed.
So many people in my life. My dad, my mom for not being there.
When I was 14 years old, my mom was gonna get remarried to this great guy.
He got murdered. And then I moved back to a small town in Brazil and,
and everybody was applying my learning disability, my, my skin color,
you know, me being everything. And so, um,
I sat there for a while and I was like, man, I gotta, I, I got it.
No one's going to come to help me. No, one's going to come to help me.
This is me against me, period. And um, so I had to man up and I said,
of course it got started doing his face in every fear I have. And man,
what the it is. And these things would keep me up.
And I know one P people who are hearing this,
they will never really understand and grasp when you face these things.
And so many things, how they keep you up and haunt you at night.
I think there's a lot of people out there that know what you're talking about.
I mean, and um, so that's what it did. And I,
I had two options to either be that 300 pound guy who sprayed
for cockroaches and made a thousand dollars a month. And at 24 years old,
knowing we're not 50 years old,
I can reflect on this and think about what guy I never became,
or I can totally just sack it up and fail and fail and
fail entire succeed. So I started calling recruiters up. I said,
I want to go be a Navy seal and every cruder. So there's a weight and height,
weight and height limit to get in the military.
And I was six foot one and 2 97. And I had a prior service,
which was a big deal. So I called all these recruiters up and all of them said,
Hey, how tall are you? Blah, blah, blah, blah.
They got into conversation and see if I was even qualified.
And by the time I got to my weight, uh, phone would hang up pretty much like,
Hey, you know what, call somebody else. And they'll try to get in the reserves.
So I tried to get in the reserves and I call this guy named Steven Sal,
Joe recruiter up. And he said, Hey, come on in. He saw me,
put me through the weight standard, all this other stuff.
And to get into the class,
I had to get into how to lose 106 pounds in less than three months.
So I was like, that I can't do that.
I grabbed my chocolate milkshake and went back to Ecolab.
I'm going back to work, man. This is my life. So in this job,
you look, you know, you're looking for cockroaches,
looking for rodents and stuff like that. And this next morning,
or this next night, I went to work and I hit the outlet.
Cockroach is too much.
I hit the mother load of cockroaches and this restaurant got full of
cockroaches and rodents and everything else. And I sat there and said,
this is my life. I said, this is my life.
You are exactly who the this is it. And I said,
this ain't going to be it for me. So in that restaurant, I quit.
My job left my canister in that restaurant.
My spray canister got back in my Ecolab truck and I went home
and I started working out like somebody. I was,
I became the most obsessed person on the planet earth. And I was basically,
I had to invent a guy that didn't exist,
had to invent a guy that can take any pain, any suffering, any kind of judgment,
be called, be called,
whatever the in the world and be able to stay in the room and say, go yourself.
I had it built.
I had to build this callous mind and I built it through suffering.
I built it through downright, just crushing myself.
If it was raining outside three o'clock in the morning, if it was snowing,
the first instinct is don't go out there and do. My ethic was,
we gotta go out there.
Anything that was horrible in my life that I would normally say, no,
that was inhumane. And most people, I had to go do it.
And I started callous in my mind at this point in my life.
And I lost the weight. I lost the weight and I went back to recruiter.
I got into that class and I went through three Navy seal,
hell weeks in one year only guy to ever be in three hell weeks in one year.
To my knowledge, the first one, I didn't make it through the next two I did.
And um, that I just didn't,
I didn't stop anymore from there. And I started realizing through this,
to this process that the mind is what you created.
And I started opening different doors that I didn't think were even there.
They didn't think even existed in the more doors open up.
The more I started realizing that my potential is near endless,
and it changed my whole mindset.
So I went from David Goggins and I created Goggins.
And that journey is a priceless journey that is hard for meeting and explain to
people because it sounds so quick and easy that guys lost this weight.
And I went through three hell weeks.
I went to ranger school and went to Delta force, Lexington, whatever it is,
it was brutal. It's a brutal journey every day. And it, well,
are you happy if anybody knows my life story and I'll try to give you a, uh,
just a snippet of it, where I'm at today is in front of Joe Rogan,
telling you my life to get through where I became to get through where I'm at
now. There's nothing but pride I have for myself that I can't really,
I can't really show people because I had this face and a space that they see,
like, are you happy? What's wrong with you. I'm driven. I'm obsessed.
And that's what you see. That's it.
People need to hear this story. This is a,
this is an exciting story for people because there's a lot of people out there
that feel trapped and they feel stuck and they feel like they can't do anything.
And this is who they are. You're a guy who felt that exact same way,
but figured out how to not be that person and be a person that you would admire.
How did you, what were the first steps? Like you had some slips before, right?
Because you, you quit because of the water thing,
but then when you went back the second time and you decided you're gonna lose
all that weight and you quit that job, did, did you,
was it just straight forward from there or were there's some days where you just
failed and then you picked it back up again?
My first run, when I decided to lose the weight, I was like I said, 2 97.
I was about 32% body fat. And I went,
my idea was to run four miles from our first run.
I didn't know how bad it's going to hurt me. I used to run before I was fat.
And I was like, it. I can do this. I ran a quarter mile and walked home.
I walked home.
I sat on my couch and cried and went to my mom's house who was about 40,
about maybe 20 minutes down the road and cried and getting her cow saying,
I can't do this job. I don't know what to do.
I just got somebody pregnant. My life was as.
I was making a thousand dollars a month. My rent was eight,
10 a month and my mind just kept with me and kept. You're not good enough, man.
This isn't for you, man. These are bass on the planet earth. You're not that.
And, um, what it was, and it's kind of funny.
I was obsessed with Rocky Rocky,
one in particular. And when I was a kid,
I come home every day and I watched this show Rocky and I would fast forward
with the little VHS tapes to round 14,
round 14, me up like nobody's business. Why this song came on. Right?
So when I bought the pull-up record, I listened to the song for 17 hours.
It's two minutes and 13 seconds.
And I'm able to visualize and dream
like nobody's business.
And I know that I can create a vision that many people can't and I work
for it. So the vision I had was when Apollo creed beat the out of Rocky,
beat the out of him. He kept fighting. He was a dumb fighter.
Couldn't read couldn't. That was me. Couldn't read. Couldn't write, just punchy.
Everything about them and Rocky beat or. I mean, he wasn't a coronary,
but I was saying, stay the down.
And him getting up him getting up.
Apollo Cree raised his arms up in the air, turned around,
thought he won the fight. He turns around and sees this guy getting up.
And it was the face of Apollo creed that changed my life.
The face of Apollo creed. It was like, just by that, getting up,
not winning just by him, getting the up.
Apollo Cree was Mo who's his champ. He's the best Rocky had taken his soul.
Had literally taken his soul. His, his head goes down. He looks at him like,
who, what the are you? I want it to be that. Not Rocky.
I want to be the guy that people looked at. I don't give you black mirror.
Or didn't like, oh, I don't care. But it said,
this is going to keep coming after whatever the is in front of
him. I wanted that. I wanted that.
I wanted that worse than anything in the world. So that is,
I kept picturing me falling down and getting up in every to
call me. I was dumb. Even myself, even myself.
I wanted to feel something besides defeat.
I want it to just go to distance and that going to distance pushed me to a point
of where now I go way past the distance. So.
You go the first day, you,
you run a quarter mile and then you walk back home and you're, you're upset.
How do you, how do you move.
Forward?
So basically what I did was I came home and I had a chocolate milkshake.
I sat down, I gave up, I said, this ain't gonna happen, man.
I gotta lose 106 pounds. And I can't even go a quarter mile.
I started being able to take negative and be
happy. And this whole, I say, what if a lot, it sounds corny.
And it sounds weak, but it's true.
One of the recruiters said there's not many black Navy sales. Matter of fact,
I was a 36 African-American seal.
And history is over several years because the water, you know,
I mean, people get mad at me. It's true. Just get over it.
And so I was like, Matt,
what story would it be? If my fat dumb,
lying to be friends with people insecure can overcome this.
And that would, if mentality like that, that,
that dreamer mentality just would always fuel me. It was truly, man,
what if I can be? What if I can be a seal, man?
W what if I can go from we're in a quarter of mile now,
now I run tour in five miles. What if I can go? Just, what if I can go?
And, and what if,
how would that feel if I'm graduating kind of get at that graduation thing?
I'll talk about 2 24. I like the video.
I sat down and watched this command officer stood up and he said to the
graduation, um, gastro graduate, graduating buds, like 18 of them. He said,
we live in a society where mediocrity is often rewarded.
And he went on to say something about these men, detest mediocrity.
And I wanted to be a man that the test mediocrity it all.
It got me a lot of trouble in the seal teams and going forward in my life
because I just, I started looking down on people for not going hard as.
And I started to create different things, but that's for a different day,
but I just believed that, you know, my whole life.